## Donations

### Making Donations

Members can make one-time and subscription donation payments on your website with the `&#123;exp:eedonations:donate_form&#125;`
template tag.  With this, you can build a donation form.  At its most complex, you can allow for custom donation amounts and donation amount
options and custom recurrence intervals or interval options.  At its simplest, you can hard-code a donation amount and simply require a 
credit card (or PayPal account) for the member to make the donation with.

You can also manually create donations in the EE Donations control panel in your ExpressionEngine control panel.  Here, you can specify
any recurrence interval or donation amount.  This is perfect for setting up donations over the phone or testing.

### Billing Addresses

Upon the first order for a subscription in either the backend or frontend, the user must (if you have placed
them in your order form) complete the
Billing Address portion of the order form.  In all future orders, this billing address will be pre-populated with
the latest used address.  It can be updated in subsequent orders and will always reflect the most recent order&#8217;s
billing address.  This saves the user and administrator time when creating subscriptions.

### Showing Payment/Subscription Records

You can list a user's subscription and payment histories on your website using the `&#123;exp:eedonations:subscriptions&#125;` and
`&#123;exp:eedonations:payments&#125;` tags.

### Managing Subscriptions

You can view all donation payments in the &#8220;Donations&#8221; tab of the EE Donations control panel in ExpressionEngine.  Each payment is linked
to a member account.  From here, you can also Refund a payment.

If donations are linked to a subscription, you can view the subscription details (such as when the next donation payment will be made,
and all archived payments).

### Updating a Credit Card for a Subscription

Sometimes, it is necessary to update the credit card associated with an active subscription (e.g., when a card expires, or when the user gets
a new credit card).

With EE Donations, you can update the credit card associated with a subscription in the EE Donations control panel in ExpressionEngine or you can use the
[&#123;exp:eedonations:update_form&#125;](/docs/template_tags.md) template tag to build an "Update Your Credit Card" form for users to complete and
manage their own billing information with.

When a subscription's billing info is updated, a new subscription is automatically created with the new billing info.  You won't notice
anything in EE Donations except for the subscription ID will change throughout the system to reflect the new subscription ID generated by your
OpenGateway billing server.

### Renewing Subscriptions

If a user would like to renew their donation subscription, you can simply pass a "renew" parameter in the `&#123;exp:eedonations:donate_form&#125;`.
This "renew" parameter should hold the subscription ID of a previous subscription.

A renewal is similar to an "update credit card" procedure, except that it will extend the expiry date of the user's subscription.

### Cancelling Subscriptions

Subscriptions can be cancelled in the control panel by select &#8220;Cancel&#8221; beside any subscription with an &#8220;Active&#8221; status.

Subscriptions can also be cancelled by the end user through a
`&#123;exp:eedonations:cancel&#125;` template tag.&nbsp; Simply place this tag on a cancellation page and
pass the subscription ID as a tag parameter.&nbsp; The subscription will be cancelled from all future charges.